---
layout: post
published: true
title: The end of GSoC 2013
date: 2013-09-23 21:04:00 +0200
categories:
- GSoC
tags:
- KDE
---

{% include gsoc_header.md %}

So here came the end of Google Summer of Code 2013. It's the best moment to talk
about what has been planned, what was done, and - traditionally - what the
future holds. Oh, and let's get some stats and pictures (because that's what
we're here for)!

## Plans

I [planned][the first post] to:

* rewrite following statistics importers based on the existing StatSyncing
  framework:
  * Amarok 1.4 (FastForward)
  * Apple iTunes
* create new statistics importers for the following media players:
  * Amarok 2.x
  * Rhythmbox
* **soft goal** two-way synchronization for created importers (I guess I
  shouldn't call them "importers" anymore, but something like "synchronization
  targets" just sounds too unwieldy)
* **softer goal** write tests for created importers
* **side goal** make new importers easy to write.

## Reality

We all know that thing about plans and reality in software development, right?

{% include image.html img="assets/2013/09/tree_swing.jpg" title="Development tree swing" caption="©2005 Paragon Innovations, Inc. I promised you pictures." %}

So let's recap what I've done:

* I created a framework for importers that takes care of managing them, loading
  and saving their configuration
  * the consequence is that a user can create, remove, reconfigure new importers
    on a whim
  * programmer can also make as many configuration options as he wants and store
    as much state in the importer as needed
* I created following statistics importer *types*, loadable as plugins:
  * Amarok 1.4
  * Amarok 2.4
  * Apple iTunes
  * Banshee
  * Clementine
  * Rhythmbox
* ...and I implemented two-way synchronization for each of them
* I wrote tests for every importer and all parts of the framework (except for
  one helper, as it's destined to be removed)
* I made new importers very easy to create - and they automatically gain all
  goodies from the framework.

Please take a look at earlier posts if you're interested in pictures - I didn't
want to overload this one with duplicates.

## Statistics

Let's get the total number of changes reported by git:

```sh
konrad@KonPC-Linux ~/kde/src/amarok $ git log a214c0a2^..HEAD --shortstat \
    | grep -E "file(s)? changed" \
    | awk '{inserted+=$4; deleted+=$6} END \
        {print "lines inserted:", inserted, "lines deleted:", deleted}'
lines inserted: 21529 lines deleted: 10225
```

That's a nice number of changes. Here's what it actually sums up to:

```sh
konrad@KonPC-Linux ~/kde/src/amarok $ git diff a214c0a2^ HEAD --shortstat
 303 files changed, 13519 insertions(+), 2257 deletions(-)
```

The difference between these numbers tells us a story: at least about ⅖ of the
code I wrote was removed afterwards through **heavy refactoring**. (Alright,
maybe this wasn't much of a story.) In other words I not only overshot my
initial plans, I was also making sure I'm doing it with *style*. ;) Of course
the numbers take into account only the changes that were finally committed -
there were a lot more in between.

Let's make some code size comparisons between old and new importers.

{% include image.html img="assets/2013/09/codeSize.png" title="Code size graph" caption="I really wanted some graphs in this post." %}

As you can see, the numbers are similar. Rhythmbox and iTunes importers are made
bigger by XML-processing code (oh how I hate it), and Amarok 2.x and FastForward
importers by custom, rich configuration widgets. The simplest importers,
Clementine and Banshee, are small and pretty.

Oh, but that's not the whole story here, is it? All of the new importers also
contain write capabilities - they can sync the statistics back to the foreign
media player. Without it a new importer can easily fit inside 100 lines, as
demonstrated in [one of my previous posts]. Mission accomplished.

As an aside, I find it interesting to note that the number of lines does
translate very well into the number of characters. The average number of
characters per line for measured code is 38.17, with standard deviation of 2.60
characters between files.

Oh, and I have proof that I was actually *doing* something during GSoC. Do take
a look at this video that I made, if only for the amazing soundtrack (720p
recommended). For details, please see the [video's description].

{% include youtube.html id="Cj6zmDUJtaE" %}

## The future

So, it's the end of Google Summer of Code, but it's not the end of the project
nor my contribution to Amarok. Arguably the most important event in the
project's lifetime - code review - still lies ahead. Not only that, but I
already have some further refactorings in mind.

Other than the project, there's always a lot to do for Amarok, and the great
community around it makes it hard to leave - so I'm not. There's just too much
fun to be had. ;)

Well, that's it for the post. I'm going to take a few days off and then an
academic term starts, and I'm back to my daytime job - I'll need some time to
adjust my schedule. Thanks for sticking around. It's been - and continues to be
- a pleasure!

[one of my previous posts]: {% post_url 2013-08-27-gsoc-status-update-week-10-2 %}
[video's description]: https://youtu.be/Cj6zmDUJtaE
